In this lecture, I'll wrap up the cloud computing section by summarizing the advantages, first one
is scalability.
Cloud computing provides businesses with the ability to regulate the service in accordance with their
current requirements.
They can scale the capacity up and down as needed.
Service comes about from the elasticity of cloud.
It's very easy to provision new servers when they're needed and when they're no longer needed.
It's easy to turn them down.
This is different than what you would get with an on premises solution.
Imagine that the customer comes to you looking for a solution and you can do it, but you would need
to buy additional servers and need to buy additional network infrastructure, etc. And you look at to
see if this is actually going to make money in the long run or not.
A problem you're going to have is if it's just a one time project that's going to run for a few months
after the project is finished, you're still going to have hardware sitting there and it's not going
to be doing anything anymore.
So you had large upfront capex cost anyway.
It's wasted money after the project is finished.
If you were deploying in the cloud, then you can just spin up those servers oswin when they're needed.
So when the project starts, you spin them up.
When the project finishes, you bring them back down again.
Also, if you already had your own on premises solution, you don't have to move everything into the
cloud.
You could keep everything on premises that you were running already and for your temporary solutions
you could run those in the cloud so that scalability is a big advantage.
Also, it gives you infinite computing capacity on demand if you can't run out of room in your data
center and what can happen with an on premises solution, there's unlimited capacity with cloud providers.
Also, you get flexibility through cloud bursting, which is similar to what I was seeing before.
But if you've got your own on premise solution, then you can scale out in the cloud as and when needed.
And as we mentioned in the last lecture as well, another possible reason for doing this is maybe you've
got your own onsite data center for your disaster recovery solution you could use cloud for.
That would also be a form of cloud bursting.
Next advantage is business agility.
Cloud gives you the ability to handle expected or unexpected changes and would again, which similar
to what we were just talking about, where if there's a sudden demand for additional servers, you can
get them provisioned very quickly and you servers can be up and running in around 15 minutes.
That's reduced time to deploy an application into production.
So it's very scalable.
It's also very fast to make more scalable changes as well.
Next one is cost efficiency.
As a customer, you paid just for what you need right now, resulting in directly proportional costs.
You don't have to overprovision and then pay for extra capacity that you're no longer using.
You avoid provisioning and paying for the peak as a permanent fixture.
If you think of an e-commerce application, they're going to be busier at Christmas.
So if you were running an on premise solution, you would need to buy enough hardware and enough infrastructure
to support your busiest time of the year.
The rest of the year that extra capacity is sitting wasted and you've already paid for that as a capex
cost to do with the cost efficiency.
You're moving from that large upfront CapEx cost to a comparatively small and more manageable monthly
OpEx cost.
And your ice sheet costs are more transparent or more manageable to the business as not fixed monthly
cost.
You do not have depreciable hardware assets.
So when you're using on premises, you buy what is only as hardware.
Now, a few years down the line that is going to be out of date is depreciated.
And you're going to have to do a technology refresh, replace it with new hardware, which again is
another big upfront CapEx cost.
The provider passes the hardware maintenance costs on the customer as part of that predictable monthly
fee.
There's no unexpected costs.
Next advantages.
This can give you a competitive advantage, reducing the capital spend with large upfront capex on infrastructure
releases funds to invest in innovation or other priority areas.
Organizations can respond quickly to evolving market fans and focus on growing their core business.
So this can give your company an advantage over other companies that are not using cloud.
Productivity, I teach that this is a big one for us, I teach staff can focus more on strategic decisions
in developing and improving core applications rather than maintaining or troubleshooting hardware infrastructure.
Now, if you're going to be cynical about it, you could think that's a nice way of saying that you're
not going to need as many I.T. staff anymore to be looking after the hardware infrastructure.
But as network engineers, just something I hear quite a lot is people worry about, well, because
everybody's moving a cloud.
Does this mean there's going to not be a role for me anymore as a network engineer?
But that is not the case at all.
So when I did the case study with the e commerce application and we had to have that network design
for how it was going to be deployed, well, the cloud provider isn't doing that for you.
You need to have your own in-house I.T. who are going to do the design.
Also the provider.
If you're using infrastructure as a service, they provide the infrastructure, but from the operating
system, an app that is managed by your own in-house staff.
So you need to have in-house staff have got the skills to do that.
So your own staff need to do the design.
They also need to do the configuration from the operating system up.
They need to be able to maintain it as well.
So cloud does not mean that normal in-house I.T. staff are going to be losing their jobs, which still
require them.
In fact, when you use cloud and you're doing the planning to go over the planning is just like if you
were moving, if you were creating a new in-house location.
So you still need the same staff to be able to do that.
Next advantage is the availability and reliability.
All major cloud providers facilities are located in hardened data centers with redundant power, no
single points of failure and on site security.
The service will be certified to of an industry standards such as ISO nine thousand and one and two
seven zero zero one.
And the data center is built by facilities, server networking and storage qualified specialists according
to best practice.
So when you use cloud services from these public cloud providers, you know they are data centers are
really well designed for already proven because we've got all those of our customers that are already
running in there.
One thing in check, the service level agreement to see what is guaranteed and the compensation if the
SLA is not made.
Next one is cost Hiraman, not so much talking about an advantage, although cost can be an advantage,
but you need to check if it is going to be or not to avoid the advantages are all great to have.
But when you make a decision whether or not to deploy cloud computing, it's usually going to come down
to the overall long term cost.
The total cost of ownership of maintaining an on premises solution should be compared to the TCO of
maintaining a cloud equivalent and the advantages and disadvantages of each factored in when making
the final decision.
However, it's not an either or decision you don't have to go with purely on premises or purely cloud.
In fact, the majority of companies who are using heart services will have a mix of both on premises
and cloud solutions.
OK, that was everything I needed to tell you about cloud computing.
I'll see you in the next section.